# 2026-04-18
Worked through Karpathy's Zero-to-Hero Lecture 1, and the "homework" he provided. It's amazing that a resource of this quality is free. 
The math is pretty simple, especially since I've been reading Mitchell's "Machine Learning" text, but it was eye-opening to see just how much _more_ there is to the field (professionally). I'm looking forward to seeing where the difficulty comes from. I've developed this theory that there are two kinds of "difficulty": difficulty through scale (complexity), and difficulty through abstraction (conceptual difficulty). It's evident that scale is at play with MLPs; what are the conceptually difficult aspects of the field?

I also though it would be a good exercise to try and re-create the micrograd example from the lecture in C. Python is a powerful tool, but I've always felt C requires a clear understanding of how data flows through a program. The conversion was more straightforward than I expected, though I did have to re-structure the code to use pointers. I also ran into an issue while implementing the indice operation; python lets you send whatever type you want, while the statically typed C required me to elevate the float variable to a full-on Value data object (this had the benefit of subsuming the exponent and power operations into one). 

There was also some trickiness in implementing the backprop algorithm, since some operators are unary while others have two operands; the C function has to have the same parameter list, even if I can use a pointer to different functions. I worked around this by passing the node into the ***Backwards algorithm instead of the individual Value nodes. I wrote the basic implementation by hand, but used Claude to generate some of the helper/display functions as well as to straight vibe-code the expression parser (which is in a separate file) and the test.c script. Claude sent it with the Neuron implementation in the test example, but I do plan to implement it by hand separately at some point.  

Can build with gcc -Wall -O2 -o test test.c -lm
I still need to go through and check this myself, though.